        III)Elementary Teaching and Maturity Teachings

A)Introduction 
         a)Meaning of the two concepts
  Elementary teaching is the  basic teachings about christ and the primary lessons in christian walk.
     1.Elementary Teaching:
                  a)Teaching that concerns the Christian foundation    (I Col 3:10)
                  b)Repetance ie: confession of sins
                  c)Belief in God i.e faith in the Lord;
                  d)Doctrinal debates on Baptism
                  e)Laying on of hands.
                  f)Resurrection of the dead.
                  g)Eternal Judgement.

     (a) As every construction has a solid secure and suitable foundation, the beginnings of our christian life has a foundation
The below are the four pillars of christian faith and foundation
                          (a)Word of God                                       
                          (b)the teachings of the Apostles                      
                          c)The Holy Conmmunion  
                          d)Perennial Prayer                            
     (b) confession of sins is essential for complete forgiveness. 
         confession being backed up by faith 
         constant confession without real repentance is meaning less and making mockery of God 
         confession at the level of thought and mind at the level of deed.
     (c) Belief in God i.e Basic faith:
          - James warns us of the rudimentary faith you beleive that there is one God 
          - Good! Even the demons believe that (James 2:19)
          - Faith that comes through the listening of God's word   (Rom - 10:17)
          - Faith that cannot openly admit Jesus    (John 12:42)
          - Faith that cannot stand the tempests of life    (Luke  8:25)
     (d) Battles of Baptism:
         "For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel"  (I Cor 1:17)
        -Re-baptisms,
        -Different methods of baptisms
     (e) Laying on of hands
        - Fresh initiations,
        -ordaining again and again,
       -when something is initiated by someone we must see that it goes on.
        we shouldn't stop it and freshly initiate once again.
       -Seasonal and functional laying on of hands.
     (f) Resurrection of the dead.
       -For some of the things christ has granted us, we shouldn't keep on stressing on them and pay extra attention.
       -we know the death of this saints is dear in the sight of the Lord   (Ps 116:15)	
     (g) Eternal judgement
       -Many preach about eternal condemnation rather than eternal salvation.
       -Eternal judgement the end of all things but not during the rapture
       -On the day of final judgement also some people will be saved.
   	
	

2 Maturity teaching:

     Maturity teaching is the solid food that was mentioned and prescribed by St Paul in (Heb 5:12- 14) against simple nulk. The same we see in (I cor 3:1-2) also.
       
        a)It is concerned with the super structure not the foundation (I cor 3:10-14)
        b)It is accruing the righteous of Christ  (Heb 5 :13), but not ceremonial repentance.
        c)It is exhibiting the faith that welcome the world (I Iohn 5:4),the faith that symbolizes and stands out the bride from aiming the maidens, as the wife of the Lands   (R 19:7)

        Maturity teaching is the Baptism of the HolySpirit but not re Baptism.

    (d)Maturity teaching is sending out beleivers evangelists prophets
      - Apostles to preach the gospel to the world while preparing the church for the rapture of Christ,

    (e)Maturity teaching is not simply laying hands but it is impairing of the gifts of the Holy Spirit
        laying on the hands   (II Thimothy 1:6)

   (f) Maturity teaching is all about the bodily ascension of the church. 
       -It has nothing to do with the resurrection of the body.
       -M/T aims at the rapture of the  Living saints but not at the ascension of the beleives 
        who slept in the lord with rapture faith.

   (g)Maturity teaching is that "And so we will be with the Lord forever". I Thes 4:17)
       - It doesnot focus on the eternal judgement.
       - Rather Maturity Teaching makes beleivers to pray and plead God to save people from the eternal judgement or
         the great white throne judgement.
     -   Maturity Teaching focusses on preaching much about Salvation and perfection and preaching less about 
         condimmetion and hell fire


Differences:

Maturity Teaching   &   contrast with the Elementary teaching:

Elementary teaching                                             Maturity teaching
                                                       
1.Word of god                                                    1.Living word (i.e Jesus)
2.Teachings of apostles                                          2.Revelation from the Lord
3.The Holy Communion                                             3.The glorious communion served by the Lord himself
4.Perennial Prayer                                               4.Face to face fellowship with the Lord
5.Constant confession of sins                                    5.Praising God for complete forgiveness
6.Basic faith for salvation                                      6.Rapture faith for Ascension
7.Water baptism & many baptisms                                  7.One baptism. The baptism of the Holy Spirit
8.Laying on the hands(functional)                                8.Imparting the gifts of the Holy Spirit (Spirit filled)
9.Looking for resurrection                                       9.Waiting for the rapture cloud (shekchina)
10.Eternal judgement( scares of lake of fire)                    10.Eternal salvation.( fullfillment of the three fold salvation 30, 60, 100)

       
